---
title: Configuring the PKI Engine
sidebar_label: Configuring the PKI Engine
---

First thing is to enable the `pki` engine in Vault, enabling the `pki` engine
follows the same process that you have taken with other engines.

## Challenge 

Why not have a go at enabling the `pki` engine yourself. Hint: the engine's
name is `pki`. If you need any help the Vault documentation is an excellent
source:

[https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/secrets](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/secrets)

<details>
<summary>Answer</summary>

Figure it out?

You should have run the following command

<VSCodeTerminal target="Vault">
  <Command>
    vault secrets enable pki
  </Command>
</VSCodeTerminal>

```shell
vault secrets enable pki
```
</details>

## Configuring the PKI engine

The duration which the certificate is valid is fully configurable, duration is 
a trade off, you need to think about the following criteria:

* Can I manage the application reload?
* Am I going to be generating so many certificates that it will put undue load on the server?

Let's configure the maximum certificate duration to `365 days or 8760 hours`, you can always request
a certificate that has a shorter duration but the `max-lease-ttl` means you can not
request a duration larger than 30 days.

<VSCodeTerminal target="Vault">
  <Command>
    vault secrets tune -max-lease-ttl=8760h pki
  </Command>
</VSCodeTerminal>

```shell
vault secrets tune -max-lease-ttl=8760h pki
```

## Generating the root certificate

Next step is to generate the root certificate, to generate the root certificate
you write to the path `pki/root/generate/internal` specifying the common name
for the certificate how long it is valid for.

Note: the `ttl` can not exceed the maximum lease ttl that was configured
in the previous step.

<VSCodeTerminal target="Vault">
  <Command>
    vault write pki/root/generate/internal common_name=demo.gs ttl=8760h
  </Command>
</VSCodeTerminal>

```
vault write pki/root/generate/internal common_name=demo.gs ttl=8760h
```

## Configuring issuing certificates and revocation lists

An optional step is to configure the issuing certificate location that is 
encoded into any certificate you generate. This points to a location
where the CA can be retrieved from. The `crl` or certificate revocation
list is the location that the certificate revocation lists can be found.
In both of these cases we can set the location to our Vault server. 

<VSCodeTerminal target="Vault">
  <Command>
    vault write pki/config/urls \
      issuing_certificates="http://localhost:8200/v1/pki/ca" \
      crl_distribution_points="http://localhost:8200/v1/pki/crl" \ 
  </Command>
</VSCodeTerminal>

```shell
vault write pki/config/urls \
  issuing_certificates="http://localhost:8200/v1/pki/ca" \
  crl_distribution_points="http://localhost:8200/v1/pki/crl" \ 
```

Now the PKI engine has been configured, in the next step you can start to
generate certificates.